---
layout: post
title: "Back to Basics at CppCon 2020"
date: 2020-08-11 00:01:00 +0000
tags:
  conferences
  cppcon
excerpt: |
  CppCon 2020 update: The Early Bird registration deadline has passed, and submission acceptance
  notifications have been sent out. This is all happening much later than last year, but that's
  okay, because CppCon 2020 will be taking place entirely online.

  In 2020, as in 2019, I'm the chair of CppCon's "Back to Basics" track. The Back to Basics
  track's mission is to _cover all the essentials of modern C++._ Each session in the track
  is about a single concrete topic, often expressible in just one or two words: Templates.
  Exception-safety. Move semantics. Our goal is to fit these sessions together like jigsaw
  pieces to produce a track that covers "everything you need to know" to be a working
  programmer in today's C++ community.
---

_A version of this post has also been posted [on the CppCon blog](https://cppcon.org/b2b2020/) (2020-08-11)._

CppCon 2020 update: The Early Bird registration deadline has passed, and submission acceptance
notifications have been sent out. This is all happening much later than last year, but that's
okay, because CppCon 2020 will be taking place entirely online.

In 2020, as in 2019, I'm the chair of CppCon's "Back to Basics" track. The Back to Basics
track's mission is to <b>cover all the essentials of modern C++.</b> Each session in the track
is about a single concrete topic, often expressible in just one or two words: Templates.
Exception-safety. Move semantics. Our goal is to fit these sessions together like jigsaw
pieces to produce a track that covers "everything you need to know" to be a working
programmer in today's C++ community.

Each session aims to <b>present time-tested guidelines</b> that are aligned with mainstream C++
and broadly useful across many industries. This accounts for the lack of any Back to Basics
sessions on Concepts, Coroutines, or Modules — all big topics in the zeitgeist this year,
but also topics where best practices are still hazy and implementations are
still immature. Attendees seeking information on cutting-edge features of C++20 will find
plenty of what they seek in CppCon 2020's main conference program.

Each session in the track is <b>presented by an expert instructor.</b> We aim to get presenters
who are not only experts on the technical material, but also experts at presentation and
instruction. I think we've succeeded — and I hope that after looking at the names below,
you'll agree!

The Back to Basics track is <b>part of the main conference program.</b> You don't need any special ticket
to attend any of the track's talks. You can freely mix B2B talks with non-B2B talks in your schedule.
Finally, the B2B track _will_ be recorded and captioned and put up on YouTube with the rest of
the main program.

Here's a sneak peek at this year's Back to Basics lineup. The precise order of
these sessions hasn't been determined as of 2020-08-11; we may shuffle them up
a bit. We've also reserved space on Friday for a "closing track keynote" which
has yet to be announced.


## Monday, 2020-09-14

Bob Steagall: <b>"The Abstract Machine."</b>

Bob Steagall: <b>"The Structure of a Program."</b>

Steve Dewhurst: <b>"Class Layout."</b>

## Tuesday, 2020-09-15

Ben Saks: <b>"Pointers and Memory."</b>

Andreas Fertig: <b>"Templates, Part 1."</b>

Andreas Fertig: <b>"Templates, Part 2."</b>

## Wednesday, 2020-09-16

Barbara Geller and Ansel Sermersheim: <b>"Lambda Expressions."</b>

Ben Saks: <b>"Unit Tests."</b>

Arthur O'Dwyer: <b>"Algebraic Data Types."</b>

## Thursday, 2020-09-17

Rainer Grimm: <b>"Smart Pointers."</b>

Mike Shah: <b>"Design Patterns."</b>

David Olsen: <b>"Move Semantics."</b>

## Friday, 2020-09-18

Klaus Iglberger: <b>"Exception-Safety."</b>

Arthur O'Dwyer: <b>"Concurrency and Thread-Safety."</b>

----

For CppCon 2019's lineup, with links to all the videos, see
["Back to Basics at CppCon 2019"](/blog/2019/09/12/cppcon-2019-b2b-track)
(2019-09-12).

You can [register for CppCon 2020 here](https://cppcon.org/registration/). Registration for
this year (only) has been lowered to $300 for the whole week. Pre-conference and post-conference
[training classes](https://cppcon.org/2020-classes/) have been extended from the usual 2×8 hours
to 3×6 hours, and remain at their old price ($1100).
I'm teaching [a new training class](https://cppcon.org/class-2020-classic-stl/) this year!
Look for more information on that class sometime soon.
